I am Igor Sikorsky, born in 1889 in Kyiv. Ukraine,
I pioneered in aircraft design and am best known
for my successful development of the helicopter.
My father was a professor of psychology. My mother
great interest in the work of Leonardo da Vinci
stimulated my early interest in experimenting
with model flying machines. I enrolled in the
Kyiv Polytechnic Institute. I noticed abstract
sciences and the higher mathematics taught had
little relationship to the solution of practical
problems, and left the school, preferring
to spend time in my own shop and laboratory.
My trips to Europe allowed me to be in contact
with the accomplishments of the Wright brothers
and European inventors. Later in Kyiv,
I began the construction of a helicopter
facing many challenges with engine designs and
state-of-the-art technologies of that time.
It was then that I decided to enter the field
of fixed-wing design and began construction
of his first airplane. My S series biplane
was tested early in 1910 and after one year,
my S-5 remained in the air for more than an hour,
and attain altitudes of 450 meters, earning me the
International Pilot’s License Number 64.
In the period of disruption following the
Russian Revolution and the collapse of Germany,
I saw little opportunity for further aircraft
development in Europe. I decided to start
over again in the United States in 1919.
My S series developments resumed with well-trained
engineers and a growing passion. In 1931 the first
S-40, the “American Clipper,” pioneered Pan
American World Airways mail and passenger
routes around the Caribbean and to South America.
Early in 1939, I started the construction of the
VS-300 helicopter. It took my dream
30 years to come to life. Certainly,
I expected my innovations to be used to rescue and
relieve human beings caught in natural disasters.
I received many honorary doctorates in science
and engineering and honorary fellowships in
leading scientific societies all over the world.
I remained active in consultation until my death
in 1972. Our dreams will bloom at the right
time if we feed them with belief and passion.